>> Melkey: Go is a statically typed
compiled programming language.
It's a general purpose language, so
I know a lot of the time certain languages
are catered for certain aspects, right?
If you think of Typescript, Typescript is
also like a general purpose language, but
its primary use case is in web dev, right?
A lot of people use Typescript Interacting
with front end libraries.
It's probably one of the best options for
that aspect of work.
In Go, Go is labeled as
a general purpose language, and
I think you'll see why, because
there's great tooling built with Go.
Whether that's developer tool like
CLI apps or something like that.
You can build version managers with Go.
You can build backend servers with Go.
Microservices, the list goes on and
on and on.
It's a compiled programming language,
so it compiles to an executable binary.
I'll show you guys how you can do that.
And it's statically typed.
So at the beginning when I was saying,
Javascript and
Python are typically seen as the first
language you should learn or recommended.
Like, yeah,
those are great languages, right?
We can make the argument that
JavaScript and Python are good.
They are good intros, but
a lot of time people gloss over the fact
that language can be statically typed,
and how important type safety is, right?
And other concepts that,
I think Go introduced, so
these being a few of them, right?
So that's kind of why I'm a big fan of Go.
I actually started as a Python developer,
and then I was introduced to Go and
I haven't really gone back.
I just think Go is far superior.
But on that same topic, Python is
the language of machine learning, right?
So, there's certain aspects of when
to use a tool and why to use a tool.
It was designed at Google
by a fairly large team.
I think it was, 10 to 15 people.
But three individuals that I would
like to highlight are Robert Grasmer,
Rob Pike, and Ken Thompson.
So, it was designed at Google in two 2007,
it was publicly announced in 09,
and then version 1.0 released in 2012.
So it was in the works for a long time.
And Go itself is known for
its simplicity, efficiency,
and strong support for
concurrent programming.
Okay, why is go important?
It could open a lot of doors for
a lot of people, like I've already said.
People who are new to programming,
people who wanna switch
from front end to back end.
I always get these questions like,
I've been in web dev for so many years, or
I've been in web dev for the first two
years of my career, and it's great,
I like it, but
I wanna get more into back end, Go.
People wanna switch from
different languages, Go, right?
And not just saying front-end
languages to back-end languages,
let's say even a PHP developer, or a.net
developer, and you wanna switch, right?
I think Go is great.
I think it's gonna be a great
answer to these questions.
It's really good at a lot of different
things, like we've seen, dev tooling,
creating CLIs, infrastructure,
networking, like we've just discussed in
the 32nd conversation,
all the things go is good at, right?
And then,
one thing I really wanted to highlight
on this slide is developer velocity.
Developer velocity, to me,
does not mean how fast you can
get a feature out the door.
Because, let's say, you've been a goal
developer for 2 or 3 years, but
you face off with this wizard in C,
who's been writing C for 20 plus years.
You're both asked to create a feature,
who's gonna do it faster?
I'm gonna put my money on the wizard,
all right?
Not to insult anyone's skill, but that
just shows why that previous definition
of developer velocity has a bit of a flaw.
The way I view developer velocity is,
how much tooling can we provide for
the developer to not be blocked, right?
What are all the things that we can give
someone to make sure that they can execute
their task however long it is,
right, from start to completion?
And I think Go has a great
developer velocity for
people to jump right into a language,
understand what's happening,
start using it, go into repo, and
start understanding what's going on.
And this last one, a strong option for
cloud computing infrastructure.
So I get asked a fair amount of time,
hey, Melkey, I'm nervous, right?
AI is taking my job, all this stuff
is happening, what should I do?
Should I continue to be a programmer or
should I continue to be a web dev?
Should just be a back end?
My answer, then again, take it with
a grain of salt, this is just my opinion.
I think everyone should learn cloud
computing, cloud infrastructure,
something like AWS, GCP,
Azure, Cloud Flare.
I think are great things to
learn right now for people,
because as you saw with LLMs,
create this function for me.
Sure, [SOUND] Copy Paste.
Okay, cool.
A lot of people can do that.
Understanding the inner workings of
certain tooling that cloud offers and
why to use them, I think is so important
that I don't think LLMs can do right now.
Because I think at that point the
conversation becomes from a programmer to
an architect, to assistant designer.
I think those skills are gonna
be harder and harder for
any LLM to even make a case against,
right?
And, Go is great for
cloud computing infrastructure.
Like I've said previously,
the SDKs are phenomenal.
A lot of teams, a lot of companies,
all those cloud companies create SDKs
using Go, and even create some
of the services in Go, right?
So, yeah, I think if you really kind
of ask me why do I recommend Go, for
someone's career, someone's growth,
I think cloud computing is the way to go.